# It is a standard for how computers will interact with other computes.

OSI Model:
There are 7 layers in the OSI Model.
1). Application Layer: It is implemented in software.
2). Presentation: It encypts & compress the data and convert into 0 and 1.
3). Session Layer: Login, Verification & Authentication takes place.
4). Transport Layer: Converts into chunks and application to wlan to network layer wlan to applicatin layer (application to wlan is transport layer)
5). Network Layer: divide into more smaller chunks and From here loca computer communicate with other computer. this where router lives.
6). Data Link Layer
7). Physical Layer



Architectures:
(i) Client-Server architecture: client-server architecture, architecture of a computer network in 
which many clients (remote processors) request and receive service from a centralized server (host computer).
(ii) Pear 2 Pear architecture: In this architecture many computers are connected to each other and works as
server as well as client.

Sockets: They are the gate ways from netwok to applications. (uses ports).


Protocols: 
(1) tcp/ip  (connection oriented, error control, bidectional(means fuel duplex) ).
i) http  ii) DHCP iii) FTP vi) SMTP v) POP3 & IMAP  (all are tcp ip)
i) http hypertec tranferprotocal (stateless protocol,dont store state)
ii) DHCP: Dynamic Host Control Protocol: it alocates ip address from network to devices.
iii) FTP: file transfer protocal.
iv) SMTP: Simple Mail Transfer Protocal: used to emails and stuff.
v) POP3 & IMAP: used to recieve emails.
vi) SSH: Secure shell 
vii) VNC Server

(2) UDP (data can be lost).






http methods: 
i) Get Method: requesting some data.
ii) post method: request submiting some cridentials and some text stuff.
iii) put method: request put some data on the server like files images stuff.
iv) delete method: request delete files on the server.

status codes:
100 means: informational
200 means: request seent successfully
300 means: redirecting.
400 means: client error.
500 means: server error.


Cookies: since hhtp dont save state of seasson so cookies re used.
it is a unique string stored in browser, they also have their expiration date.



Transport layer: (it also controls conjestion (trafic)). 
conjesion control algorithms are built in tcp.

Multiplecsing: It allows us to send files, messages and video call as bundeled to internet,
transport layer has a multiplecser whick bundle all the things in a box and send to internet.

Demultiplecser: It extracts the bundle made by multiplecsor and send it to sockets sockets have port numbers.
and send the respective apps data. eg. whatsapp will get video call, telegram will get messages and files will go to downloader.

Checksums: while sending data transport layer associate a checksum with data using an algorithm,
while recieve data to another user the same algorithm is used to make sure that data is complete and in the correct order.      

Retransmition Timer: On sending of every packet there is a timer started when other user recieves the data it sends back
that the data is recieved and the timer stops, if there is no response from other users after a particular time the timers expires and says 
data is not sent. And then we will try to send another same packet. Or if the other user have recieved the packet but response got corrupted
and we will send the same packer again, the duplicay will be solved using sequence number of packets.



User DataGram Protocols (UDP); 
Data may not be in order, Connectionless protocol means no need to make a stable connection although can transfer data between computers.
It also uses checksum but as formality.

UDP packet: stores distination and source port no of 2 - 2 bytes. length of datagram and checksum of 2 - 2 bytes = 8 byte makes a header of packet.
 total size of packet can be 2^16 bytes and 2^16 - 8 bytes is user's data.
it is used by DNS, Games, Video calling.



TCP(3way handshake): Cleint sends a syn flag to server with a random sequence number, server do some maths on sequence number and response with acknoledge flag to client.In response acknowledge flags is sent by client to server and connection establshed.


Transport layer convert data in segments.
network layer convert data in packets.
Data link layer convert data in frames.



Network Layer: (here we work with routers)->  pendingS


Middle Boxes: the divices present in network and transport layer whick also interact with packets.
i) firewalls: used as filters and modify packets.













